README.md, before:

![alt text](https://github.com/HaroldReyiz/Bmogotchi/blob/master/Bmogotchi/BMO.png "BMO.png")

**Bmogotchi**

Bmogotchi is a tamagotchi like game where you take care of your BMO!

It's my first actual game and also a birthday gift to my girlfriend :›
**Due date: 27th of May!**

Below is the Game Design Document.

**Game Analysis**

BMOGOTCHI is a game akin to Tamagotchi's of our childhood (hence the pun). You take care of your BMO (a character from popular show Adventure Time).
You gain score as long as you keep it alive and well and lose the game if you let it die.
It should be addictive and make the player check on his/her BMO from time to time, on his/her mobile device.

**Genre**

Digital pet ?

**Platforms**

Initially Android only (see target audience for why).

**Tech/Tools**

- [Godot game engine](https://godotengine.org/)
- [Pixilart](https://pixilart.com/)

**Target Audience**

My girlfriend (this is a birthday gift actually!).

**Control Scheme**

Touch controls for various buttons. No joypad, d-pad etc.

**Characters**

BMO, a living gameboy. Cute. My GF basically.

**Gameplay**

- There will be 6 metrics governing the life of BMO: Health, Hygiene, Fullness (as in not hungry), Happiness, Fun, Energy.
  They all have values ranging from 10 (best) to 0 (worst). When health reaches 0, game is lost. Health is also influenced by other 5 metrics.
  When these metrics are below or above certain thresholds (specific to each), some status buffs/debuffs are applied.

- There are various actions the player can take to increase/decrease these metrics at any given time.
  Examples: Feeding, bathing etc.
  Some actions are only possible when certain statuses are active. Example: Can only vaccinate when not sick or can only give an injection when sick.

  Detailed information such as the action vs. metric matrix and list of status buffs & debuffs are in the .xlsx companion of this text document.

**Graphics & Art Direction**

  Pixel art based, simple and minimalistic.

Setting & Ambiance:
- A typical screenshot of this game will consist of the BMO's sprite covering the most screen real estate, metric and status UI, interaction buttons etc. 
        
Background:
- Will be static color or image. If time is left, a cool effect might be devised and implemented.

Acquisition/Generation of Art Assets: 
- Main character BMO and its various facial expressions, as well as metric UI etc. will be generated by the developer, with [Pixilart](https://pixilart.com/).
- Food and other various sprites will be acquired as free sprites from web if possible.

**Sound Effects**

- Prototype game developer packs on the web will be used for sound effects for things such as button clicks or BMO's various reactions.

**Music**

- Melodies of 3 made-up songs/lullabies that my GF and I sometimes sing will be recorded as 8 bit tracks in a free tool. No vocals.

Commit message:

Add level gain mechanic to GDD.

README.md, after:

![alt text](https://github.com/HaroldReyiz/Bmogotchi/blob/master/Bmogotchi/BMO.png "BMO.png")

**Bmogotchi**

Bmogotchi is a tamagotchi like game where you take care of your BMO!

It's my first actual game and also a birthday gift to my girlfriend :›
**Due date: 27th of May!**

Below is the Game Design Document.

**Game Analysis**

BMOGOTCHI is a game akin to Tamagotchi's of our childhood (hence the pun). You take care of your BMO (a character from popular show Adventure Time).
You gain score as long as you keep it alive and well and lose the game if you let it die.
It should be addictive and make the player check on his/her BMO from time to time, on his/her mobile device.

**Genre**

Digital pet ?

**Platforms**

Initially Android only (see target audience for why).

**Tech/Tools**

- [Godot game engine](https://godotengine.org/)
- [Pixilart](https://pixilart.com/)

**Target Audience**

My girlfriend (this is a birthday gift actually!).

**Control Scheme**

Touch controls for various buttons. No joypad, d-pad etc.

**Characters**

BMO, a living gameboy. Cute. My GF basically.

**Gameplay**

- There will be 6 metrics governing the life of BMO: Health, Hygiene, Fullness (as in not hungry), Happiness, Fun, Energy.
  They all have values ranging from 10 (best) to 0 (worst). When health reaches 0, game is lost. Health is also influenced by other 5 metrics.
  When these metrics are below or above certain thresholds (specific to each), some status buffs/debuffs are applied.

- There are various actions the player can take to increase/decrease these metrics at any given time.
  Examples: Feeding, bathing etc.
  Some actions are only possible when certain statuses are active. Example: Can only vaccinate when not sick or can only give an injection when sick.

- For every 4 hours spent, BMO gains a level. With each level, new actions will be unlocked.

  Detailed information such as the action vs. metric matrix and list of status buffs & debuffs are in the .xlsx companion of this text document.

**Graphics & Art Direction**

  Pixel art based, simple and minimalistic.

Setting & Ambiance:
- A typical screenshot of this game will consist of the BMO's sprite covering the most screen real estate, metric and status UI, interaction buttons etc. 
        
Background:
- Will be static color or image. If time is left, a cool effect might be devised and implemented.

Acquisition/Generation of Art Assets: 
- Main character BMO and its various facial expressions, as well as metric UI etc. will be generated by the developer, with [Pixilart](https://pixilart.com/).
- Food and other various sprites will be acquired as free sprites from web if possible.

**Sound Effects**

- Prototype game developer packs on the web will be used for sound effects for things such as button clicks or BMO's various reactions.

**Music**

- Melodies of 3 made-up songs/lullabies that my GF and I sometimes sing will be recorded as 8 bit tracks in a free tool. No vocals.
